To find the height or maximum depth of a tree
We can write a function max depth which takes the
root of tree as input and returns the maximum depth
which will be an integer.
Firstly if the root is null, return zero and this is
the base condition here.
This base condition will handle two cases
The first case is
if the tree is empty, then it will straightaway return
zero and the second case is
if traversal reaches null. Then it will return zero
So let us see how it works
First find a maximum depth of left sub tree
So write int l_depth equal to max depth of
root-left
Then find the maximum depth of right sub tree
So find r_depth.
Then take the maximum of it and add one to it
and return that value
So write if l_depth is greater than r_depth
return l_depth + one else right sub tree has
the maximum depth so return r_depth + one.
So we know how inorder recursion works. So the
calculation will start from this node 10. Here l_depth equal
to zero and r_depth equal to zero.
So zero + one which is one is returned. Similarly for 55,
zero + one which is one is returned and now for
node 60 height of left sub tree is one and
right sub tree is zero. So the maximum value is one.
So return one + one that is two.
Now for node 50
We have height of left sub tree equal to one
and right sub tree equal to two
So max of one and two is two.
So return one + two that is three. Now for
node 150 max of zero and zero is zero. So return
one + zero that is one.
Similarly for the node 300 return zero + one which
is one and for node 200,
the height of left sub tree and right sub tree
is one. So return one + one that is two.
Finally for node 100, height of left sub tree is
three and right sub tree is two
So the max value is three here. So return one + three
which is four and that is the height or max depth of the tree.